                    User-Visible krb5-strength Changes

krb5-strength 3.1 (2016-12-25)

    A new configuration option, cracklib_maxlen, can be set to skip
    CrackLib checks of passwords longer than that length.  The CrackLib
    rules were designed in a world in which most passwords were four to
    eight characters long and tend to spuriously reject longer passwords.
    SQLite dictionaries work better for checking longer passwords and
    passphrases.  Patch from Jorj Bauer.

    The require_classes configuration option can now require a particular
    number of character classes in the password (whatever those classes
    are).  Patch from Toby Blake.

    Change the error messages returned for passwords that fail strength
    checking to start with a capital letter.  This appears to be more
    consistent with the error message conventions used inside Heimdal.

    Change the DB_File::Lock calling method in heimdal-history to work
    properly with the (buggy) CPAN version of DB_File::Lock, instead of
    relying on Debian's patched version.  Thanks to Bernt Jernberg for the
    report.

    Apply the SuSE patch for a buffer overflow when using duplicate rules
    to the embedded CrackLib.  No duplicating rules are used in the rule
    set included with this package, and this package doesn't expose the
    general API, so this was not exploitable, but best to close the latent
    issue.  (The other recent CrackLib vulnerability, CVE-2016-6318,
    doesn't apply since all the GECOS manipulation code was removed from
    the embedded CrackLib in this package.)

    Patch the mkdict and packer in the embedded copy of CrackLib to force
    C locale when sorting (avoiding a corrupted dictionary) and warn and
    skip out-of-order words rather than creating a corrupted dictionary.
    Patch from Mark Sirota.

    Configuration instrutions are now in the heimdal-history and
    heimdal-strength man pages and a new krb5-strength man page (which
    documents configuration of the KDC plugin) instead of the README file
    to make it more accessible after the software has been installed.

    Update to rra-c-util 6.2:

    * Use calloc in preference to malloc wherever appropriate.
    * Use reallocarray in preference to realloc wherever appropriate.
    * Suppress warnings from Kerberos headers under make warnings.
    * Support the embedded Kerberos in Solaris 10 in library probes.
    * Add missing va_end in xasprintf implementation.
    * Fix logic in Test::RRA::Automake for new Automake dist checking.
    * Fix all return-value checks for snprintf to avoid off-by-one error.
    * Update warning flags for make warnings to GCC 6.1.0.
    * Fix Test::RRA::Config for new "do" semantics in Perl 5.22.2.
    * Add a new test for obsolete eyrie.org URLs.
    * Require Test::Strict 0.25 or newer for Perl strictness checks.

    Update to C TAP Harness 4.1:

    * Replace all remaining uses of sprintf.
    * Test lists may now have comments and blank lines.
    * runtests -v will show the complete output from a test.
    * Fix segfault in runtests when given an empty test list.
    * Tests use C_TAP_SOURCE and C_TAP_BUILD instead of SOURCE and BUILD.

krb5-strength 3.0 (2014-03-25)

    The krb5-strength plugin and heimdal-strength program now support a
    SQLite password dictionary.  This format of dictionary can detect any
    password within edit distance one of a dictionary word, meaning that
    the dictionary word can be formed by adding, removing, or changing a
    single character in the password.  A SQLite password dictionary can be
    used alone or in combination with any of the other supported
    dictionary types.  SQLite dictionary support is based on work by David
    Mazières.

    cdbmake-wordlist has been renamed to krb5-strength-wordlist.
    Generating CDB dictionaries now requires the -c option; see the
    documentation for more information.  A SQLite database of dictionary
    words can now be created instead, using the -s option.

    A password history implementation for Heimdal is now included.  This
    is a separate Perl program, heimdal-history, that stacks with the
    external program implementation of strength checking.  It is not
    available in the form of a plugin, only as a Heimdal external password
    quality check.  (MIT Kerberos provides its own password history
    mechanism.)  This program has more extensive Perl module dependencies
    than the other programs in this distribution.

    A new configuration option, minimum_different, can be set to require
    that passwords contain at least that many unique characters.  This can
    be used to reject long strings of identical characters or short
    patterns, which may pass other checks but still be too easy to guess.

    Update to rra-c-util 5.4:

    * Fix portable/krb5.h build with a C++ compiler.
    * Use Lancaster Consensus environment variables to control tests.
    * Work around perltidy bug that leaves behind stray log files.

    Update to C TAP Harness 3.0:

    * Reopen standard input to /dev/null when running a test list.
    * Don't leak extraneous file descriptors to tests.

krb5-strength 2.2 (2013-12-16)

    More complex character class requirements can be specified with the
    configuration option require_classes.  This option lists the character
    classes the password must contain.  These restrictions may be
    qualified with password length ranges, allowing the requirements to
    change with the length of the password.  See README for more details
    and the option syntax.

    cdbmake-wordlist now supports filtering out words based on maximum
    length (-L) and arbitrary user-provided regular expressions (-x).  It
    also supports running in filter mode to produce a new wordlist instead
    of a CDB file (-o).

    Close a file descriptor and memory leak in the included version of
    CrackLib.  This problem was already fixed in CrackLib 2.9.0.

    Update to rra-c-util 4.12:

    * Properly check the return status of snprintf and friends.

    Update to C TAP Harness 2.3:

    * Suppress lazy plans and test summaries if the test failed with bail.
    * Add warn_unused_result gcc attributes to relevant functions.

krb5-strength 2.1 (2013-10-10)

    Fix the package build when CDB support is disabled or TinyCDB was not
    found.

    Some of the password rejection error messages have been changed to
    make them more accurate or comprehensible to the user.

    Passing --with-tinycdb to configure now correctly makes TinyCDB
    support mandatory without adding bogus directories to the library and
    include search paths.

krb5-strength 2.0 (2013-10-07)

    Add support for the MIT Kerberos password quality plugin interface,
    available in MIT Kerberos 1.9 and later, contributed by Greg Hudson
    and MIT.  Drop the patch for MIT Kerberos 1.4 (and hence support for
    versions of MIT Kerberos prior to 1.9).  A dictionary path set in
    krb5.conf takes precedence over the dictionary path provided by MIT
    Kerberos when the plugin is initialized, if both are set, to allow the
    dict_path configuration setting to be used for other plugins while
    using a separate dictionary for krb5-strength.

    The default installation path for this plugin is now
    /usr/local/lib/krb5/plugins/pwqual/strength.so (for both MIT and
    Heimdal), assuming a --libdir setting of /usr/local/lib.  This may
    require updates to the Kerberos KDC configuration or moving the plugin
    when upgrading from earlier versions.

    Add support for building with TinyCDB and then checking passwords
    against a CDB database.  There is a new password_dictionary_cdb
    krb5.conf configuration setting that configures a CDB directory to
    use.  The tests with a CDB dictionary are much simpler: passwords are
    rejected if found in the dictionary either literally, with one or two
    characters removed from the start or end, or with one character
    removed from both the start and the end.  Both a CrackLib and a CDB
    dictionary can be specified to check both dictionaries.  A new
    cdbmake-wordlist utility (written in Perl) is included to ease the
    process of creating a CDB database from a simple word list.

    A minimum password length can now be enforced directly via the plugin
    or external check program without relying on CrackLib.  To set a
    minimum password length, add a minimum_length setting to the
    krb5-strength section of [appdefaults] in krb5.conf.

    New boolean settings require_ascii_printable and require_non_letter
    are supported in the krb5-strength setting of [appdefaults] in
    krb5.conf.  The former rejects passwords containing characters other
    than printable ASCII characters (including space), and the latter
    requires that passwords contain at least one character that is not a
    letter (upper or lower case) or a space.

    The plugin can now be configured without a dictionary, in which case
    only checks for a password based on the principal and the simpler
    checks available through the new configuration variables are done.
    This mode is mostly useful for testing, since such simple checking can
    more easily be done via less complex password strength configurations.

    The check for passwords based on the principal now check for passwords
    formed by reversing or adding numbers before and after each separate
    component of the principal.  This will catch passwords based on the
    realm or components of the realm, which will often catch passwords
    based on the name of the local institution.

    The plugin now sets the Kerberos error message in the context to pass
    error information, resulting in higher-quality error reporting in the
    MIT Kerberos plugin.

    CrackLib checks for passwords where a character is a simple increment
    or decrement of the previous character.  In previous versions, the
    embedded version of CrackLib allowed at most four such occurrences in
    the entire password.  This results in false positives on long
    passphrases, since such accidental letter relationships aren't
    uncommon in human languages.  Change the embedded CrackLib to allow
    one such simple increment for every three characters in the password,
    which tightens the check somewhat for shorter passwords and loosens it
    considerably for longer passwords.

    Expect the Heimdal password strength checking plugin header in
    kadm5/kadm5-pwcheck.h instead of outside of the kadm5 directory.  This
    is the path used by current versions of Heimdal.  Drop support for
    older versions of Heimdal that don't install this header file.

    Update to rra-c-util 4.9:

    * Probe for Kerberos headers using file checks instead of compiles.
    * Improve probe for the Heimdal libroken library.
    * Always build with large file support.
    * Conditionally call AM_PROG_AR for portability to new Autotools.

    Update to C TAP Harness 2.2:

    * Allow more easily running single programs under tests/runtests.
    * Flush the output from the test harness after each test.

krb5-strength 1.1 (2012-05-11)

    Change the minimum password length in the embedded CrackLib to 8.

    Reject passwords formed from the username portion of the principal
    with digits appended.

    In the embedded CrackLib, also check for a duplicated dictionary word.

    Support linking with the system CrackLib instead of the embedded and
    stricter copy by passing --with-cracklib to configure.

    Fix variable sizes in the embedded CrackLib on 64-bit platforms.  This
    may fix interoperability problems with databases created on platforms
    with a different native integer size.  Thanks, Karl Lehnberger and
    Benj Carson.

    Stop using local in the test suite for portability to Solaris /bin/sh.

    Update to rra-c-util 4.4:

    * Use PATH_KRB5_CONFIG to override krb5-config location.
    * Fix probing for ibm_svc/krb5_svc.h on AIX.
    * Support Heimdal libraries without libroken, like OpenBSD.
    * Fix manual Kerberos library probing without transitive dependencies.
    * Support systems that only have krb5/krb5.h.
    * Pass --deps to krb5-config in the non-reduced-dependencies case.
    * Silence __attribute__ warnings on more compilers.
    * Update warning flags for make warnings.
    * Flesh out MAINTCLEANFILES to remove autogen results.
    * Add notices to all files copied from rra-c-util.

    Update to C TAP Harness 1.12:

    * Drop is_double from the C TAP library to avoid requiring -lm.
    * Avoid using local in the shell libtap.sh library.
    * Silence __attribute__ warnings on more compilers.
    * runtests now frees all allocated resources on exit.
    * Fix runtests to still honor SOURCE and -s without BUILD and -b.
    * Add tests/HOWTO documenting how to add new tests.
    * Ensure correct output ordering in test results.
    * Add -h and a better usage message to tests/runtests.

krb5-strength 1.0 (2010-02-16)

    Add heimdal-strength, a program that checks password strength using
    the protocol for a Heimdal external check program.

    The shared module now also exports the interface expected by Heimdal's
    dynamically loaded password strength checking API and can be used as a
    Heimdal kadmin plugin.

    Add a new plugin API for MIT Kerberos modelled after the plugin API
    used for other MIT Kerberos plugins.  Thanks to Marcus Watts for
    substantial research and contributions to the interface design.  This
    work is incomplete in this release, missing the corresponding patch to
    MIT Kerberos.

    Fixed the data format written by the included packer program to add
    enough nul bytes at the end of the data.  Previously, there was not
    enough trailing nul bytes for the expected input format, leading to
    uninitialized memory reads in the password lookup.

    Add a test suite using the driver and library from C TAP Harness 1.1.

    Add portability code for platforms without a working snprintf or other
    deficiencies and updated the code to take advantage of those
    guarantees.

krb5-strength 0.5 (2007-07-18)

    The check of the password against the principal checked against the
    fully-qualified principal, which is not the usual problem.
    Additionally check that the password doesn't match the principal with
    the realm removed or the reverse of that (case-insensitive).

krb5-strength 0.4 (2007-03-28)

    The patches directory was omitted from the distribution.  Really
    include it.

krb5-strength 0.3 (2007-03-23)

    Initial public release.  Includes a patch for MIT Kerberos, a slightly
    modified version of CrackLib, and glue wrapped around CrackLib to make
    a loadable module.
